# The Cresset Template for PyTorch on the Intel Gaudi

## Introduction

This repository is a template for getting started with using PyTorch on the
Intel Gaudi. It is based on the `ngc` service of the 
[Cresset](https://github.com/cresset-template/cresset) template.

The template is mostly targeted towards researchers who must change their
development environment frequently and customize many aspects.

## Getting Started
### Pre-Installation

1. Press the green "Use this Template" button to create a new repository!
2. Install the Docker engine on the host machine.
[Instructions for Ubuntu hosts](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/#install-using-the-repository)
3. Run `make install-compose` to install Docker Compose if necessary.
4. Install the Habana Docker Runtime on the host.

   3-1. Visit this [link](https://docs.habana.ai/en/latest/Installation_Guide/Bare_Metal_Fresh_OS.html)
   for installation instructions.
   
   3-2. Go to "Install Using Containers" and install according to the host platform.

### Setup
1. Run `make env` to create a `.env` file. This need only be done once per directory.
2. Run `make build` to build the Docker image and start the container.
Run this command when you wish to rebuild the Docker image.
3. Run `make up` if the image has already been built and you do not wish to rebuild.
Note that this will delete the previous container, deleting any operations performed on it.

### Add Directories
1. Run `make over` to add a new directory to the container.
2. Edit the `docker-compose.override.yaml` file generated by the `make over`
command to mount desired host directories to the container.
Do not edit the `docker-compose.yaml` file if possible.

### How to Use
1. Run `make exec` to enter an existing Docker container.
2. Run `tmux` or related commands once inside the container
to prevent interruptions from disconnects.
3. Use ^d (cmd+d) to exit from the container.
This will not stop the container and `tmux` shells will continue to run.

## Modifying Requirements

1. To add `apt` packages to your project, edit the `apt.requirements.txt` file.
2. To add `conda` or `pip` packages to your project, edit the `environments.yaml` file.
3. Edit the `pip.uninstalls.txt` file to remove pre-installed `pip` packages on the image.
---
Note that `pip` packages installed on system Python have higher priority than
user-installed `pip` packages by design.

Use the `pip.uninstalls.txt` file to remove system `pip` packages if
custom versions of those packages are required.


## Frequently Asked Questions

### VSCode
Both the VSCode CLI and VSCode Server are installed in the image.
Use these to connect to VSCode on your local environment.

### Using Cresset in an Existing Project

If the user wishes to use the template as a directory inside an existing project,
append `HOST_ROOT=..` to the `.env` file to configure the parent directory as the
root of the project on the host.

Other configurations using relative paths, such as `HOST_ROOT=../..` 
for the parent of the parent directory, are also possible.
